
# Monkey Coder
**CMPS 6740 Reinforcement Learning**

With the rapid development of the internet and cloud computing, an increasing number of activities are now executed or supported by software systems. At the same time, the growing sophistication and frequency of cyberattacks continue to violate these systems, causing substantial security and financial losses. Preventing attackers from analyzing or reverse-engineering software is therefore a critical defense strategy, and code obfuscation remains one of the most widely used and effective techniques for this purpose. However, practical obfuscation tools for Python, one of the foundational languages in modern AI development, are still limited, leaving significant security vulnerabilities. Motivated by the flexibility and adaptability of reinforcement learning (RL) for program transformation, we propose an RL-based obfuscation framework for Python. Our approach applies diverse code transformations to produce semantically equivalent yet substantially harder-to-understand programs. We evaluate our method on a benchmark of 100 Python programs generated by large language models. Our RL-based approaches demonstrate strong effectiveness for Python code obfuscation, with the Monte Carlo policy outperforming all other methods and achieving state-of-the-art results on our benchmark, including an average of more than two valid line insertions per program.

## Group Members
- Jiangpeng Liu (jliu58@tulane.edu)
- Arturo Altamirano (aaltamirano@tulane.edu)
- Jiarui Li (jli78@tulane.edu)

## Setup
Our project is required to be executed in Linux environment, with Python version to be `>=3.14`.

The required packages can be installed following command:
```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

## Obfuscate a Python Code
To obfuscate a Python code, please use command:
```bash
python obfuscator.py ./dataset 1 montecarlo 4
```
**Parameter Docs**
```bash
python obfuscator.py \
    {dataset} \
    {sample_id} \
    {policy} \
    {max_edits}
```
- `dataset` (str): the path to the code dataset.
- `sample_id` (int): the selected sample ID from the dataset.
- `policy` (random|montecarlo|grpo|td0): the policy options, which could be:
  - `random`: Random Policy.
  - `montecarlo`: Monte Carlo Policy.
  - `grpo`: GRPO Policy.
  - `td0`: TD(0) Policy.
- `max_edits` (int): the maximum number of modifications.